Release 2.13.0 (#6336)
timescale/timescaledb: docs/MultiNodeDeprecation.md

> ## Multi-node Deprecation

Reviewer: @mkindahl @erimatnor do you mind checking this file? This is the announcement that we have prepared with Ramon & Bryan on the product side - will be linked by other announcements as well, but it's better if it lives on the main repo

> ## Multi-node Deprecation
> 
> Multi-node support has been deprecated.
> TimescaleDB 2.13 is the last version that will include multi-node support.
> Multi-node support in 2.13 is available for PostgreSQL 13, 14 and 15.
> 
> If you want to migrate from multi-node TimescaleDB to single-node TimescaleDB
> read the [migration documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/migrate/latest/multi-node-to-timescale-service/).
> 
> ### Why we have deprecated multi-node support
> 
> We began to work on multi-node support in 2018 and released the first version in 2020 to provide higher scalability
> for TimescaleDB deployments. Since then and as we’ve continued to evolve our community and cloud products,
> we’ve come to the realization that multi-node was not the most forward-looking approach,
> and we have instead turned our focus to more cloud-native designs that inherently leverage compute/storage separation for higher scalability.
> 
> These are the challenges we encountered with our multi-node architecture:
> - <b>Lower development speed</b>
> 
>   Multi-node was hard to maintain and evolve and added a very high tax on any new feature we developed,
>   significantly slowing down our development speed.
>   Additionally, only ~1% of TimescaleDB deployments use multi-node.
> 
> - <b>Inconsistent developer experience</b>
> 
>   Multi-node imposed a key initial decision on developers adopting TimescaleDB: start with single-node or start with multi-node.
>   Moving from one to the other required a migration.
>   On top of that there were a number of features supported on single-node that were not available on multi-node making
>   the experience inconsistent and the choice even more complicated.
> 
> - <b>Expensive price / performance ratio</b>
> 
>   We were very far from linear scalability, not least due to the natural “performance hit” when scaling from a single-node to distributed transactions.
>   For example, handling 2x the load a single node could handle required 8 servers.
>   At the same time we’ve been able to dramatically improve the performance of single-node to handle 2 million inserts
>   per second as well as improve query performance dramatically with a
>   number of [query optimizations](https://www.timescale.com/blog/8-performance-improvements-in-recent-timescaledb-releases-for-faster-query-analytics/)
>   and [vectorized query execution](https://www.timescale.com/blog/teaching-postgres-new-tricks-simd-vectorization-for-faster-analytical-queries/). 
> 
> - <b>Not designed to leverage new cloud architectures</b>
> 
>   As we’ve gained experience developing and scaling cloud solutions we’ve realized that we can solve
>   the same problems more easily through new more modern approaches that leverage cloud technologies,
>   which often separate compute and storage to scale them independently.
>   For example, we’re now leveraging object storage in our cloud offering to deliver virtually infinite
>   storage capacity at a very low cost with [Tiered Storage](https://www.timescale.com/blog/scaling-postgresql-for-cheap-introducing-tiered-storage-in-timescale/),
>   and our [columnar compression](https://www.timescale.com/blog/building-columnar-compression-in-a-row-oriented-database/) (built concurrently to multi-node)
>   offers effective per-disk capacity that’s 10-20x that of traditional Postgres.
>   Similarly, users can scale compute both vertically and horizontally by either dynamically resizing compute
>   allocated to cloud databases, or adding additional server replicas (each of which can use the same tiered storage).
> 
> Given all those reasons, we’ve made the difficult decision to deprecate multi-node so we can accelerate feature development
> and performance improvements, and deliver a better developer experience for the 99% of our community that is not using multi-node.
> 
> ### Questions and feedback
> 
> We understand the news will be disappointing to users of multi-node. We’d like to help and provide advice on the best path forward for you.
> 
> If you have any questions or feedback, you can share them in the #multi-node channel in our [community Slack](https://slack.timescale.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multi-node Deprecation

Multi-node support has been deprecated.
TimescaleDB 2.13 is the last version that will include multi-node support. Multi-node support in 2.13 is available for PostgreSQL 13, 14 and 15.
This decision was not made lightly, and we want to provide a clear understanding of the reasoning behind this change and the path forward.

### Why we are ending multi-node support

We began to work on multi-node support in 2018 and released the first version in 2020 to address the growing
demand for higher scalability in TimescaleDB deployments.
The distributed architecture of multi-node allowed for horizontal scalability of writes and reads to go beyond what a single node could provide. 

While we added many improvements since the initial launch, the architecture of multi-node came with a number of
inherent limitations and challenges that have limited its adoption.
Regrettably, only about 1% of current TimescaleDB deployments utilize multi-node, and the complexity involved in
maintaining this feature has become a significant obstacle.
It’s not an isolated feature that can be kept in the product with very little effort since adding new features required
extra development and testing to ensure they also worked for multi-node.

As we've evolved our single-node product and expanded our cloud offering to serve thousands of customers,
we've identified more efficient solutions to meet the scalability needs of our users.

First, we’ve been able and will continue to make big improvements in the write and read performance of single-node. 
We’ve scaled a single-node deployment to process 2 million inserts per second and have seen performance improvements of 10x for common queries.
You can read a summary of the latest query performance improvements [here](https://www.timescale.com/blog/8-performance-improvements-in-recent-timescaledb-releases-for-faster-query-analytics/).

And second, we are leveraging cloud technologies that have become very mature to provide higher scalability in a more accessible way.
For example, our cloud offering uses object storage to deliver virtually [infinite storage capacity at a very low cost](https://www.timescale.com/blog/scaling-postgresql-for-cheap-introducing-tiered-storage-in-timescale/).

For those reasons, we’ve decided to focus our efforts on improving single-node and leveraging cloud technologies to solve for high scalability and as a result we’ve ended support for multi-node.

### What this means for you

We understand that this change may raise questions, and we are committed to supporting you through the transition.

For current TimescaleDB multi-node users, please refer to our [migration documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/migrate/latest/multi-node-to-timescale-service/)
for a step-by-step guide to transition to a single-node configuration.

Alternatively, you can continue to use multi-node up to version 2.13. However, please be aware that future versions will no longer include this functionality.

If you have any questions or feedback, you can share them in the #multi-node channel in our [community Slack](https://slack.timescale.com/).

```
